README.md, before:

# Astro Starter Kit: Blog

```sh
npm create astro@latest -- --template blog
```

[![Open in StackBlitz](https://developer.stackblitz.com/img/open_in_stackblitz.svg)](https://stackblitz.com/github/withastro/astro/tree/latest/examples/blog)
[![Open with CodeSandbox](https://assets.codesandbox.io/github/button-edit-lime.svg)](https://codesandbox.io/p/sandbox/github/withastro/astro/tree/latest/examples/blog)
[![Open in GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/codespaces/badge.svg)](https://codespaces.new/withastro/astro?devcontainer_path=.devcontainer/blog/devcontainer.json)

> 🧑‍🚀 **Seasoned astronaut?** Delete this file. Have fun!

![blog](https://github.com/withastro/astro/assets/2244813/ff10799f-a816-4703-b967-c78997e8323d)

Features:

- ✅ Minimal styling (make it your own!)
- ✅ 100/100 Lighthouse performance
- ✅ SEO-friendly with canonical URLs and OpenGraph data
- ✅ Sitemap support
- ✅ RSS Feed support
- ✅ Markdown & MDX support

## 🚀 Project Structure

Inside of your Astro project, you'll see the following folders and files:

```text
├── public/
├── src/
│   ├── components/
│   ├── content/
│   ├── layouts/
│   └── pages/
├── astro.config.mjs
├── README.md
├── package.json
└── tsconfig.json
```

Astro looks for `.astro` or `.md` files in the `src/pages/` directory. Each page is exposed as a route based on its file name.

There's nothing special about `src/components/`, but that's where we like to put any Astro/React/Vue/Svelte/Preact components.

The `src/content/` directory contains "collections" of related Markdown and MDX documents. Use `getCollection()` to retrieve posts from `src/content/blog/`, and type-check your frontmatter using an optional schema. See [Astro's Content Collections docs](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/content-collections/) to learn more.

Any static assets, like images, can be placed in the `public/` directory.

## 🧞 Commands

All commands are run from the root of the project, from a terminal:

| Command                   | Action                                           |
| :------------------------ | :----------------------------------------------- |
| `npm install`             | Installs dependencies                            |
| `npm run dev`             | Starts local dev server at `localhost:4321`      |
| `npm run build`           | Build your production site to `./dist/`          |
| `npm run preview`         | Preview your build locally, before deploying     |
| `npm run astro ...`       | Run CLI commands like `astro add`, `astro check` |
| `npm run astro -- --help` | Get help using the Astro CLI                     |

## 👀 Want to learn more?

Check out [our documentation](https://docs.astro.build) or jump into our [Discord server](https://astro.build/chat).

## Credit

This theme is based off of the lovely [Bear Blog](https://github.com/HermanMartinus/bearblog/).

Commit message:

Update Astro configuration and build scripts
// blank line
- Modified `astro.config.mjs` to configure the Astro DB plugin with
  `studio: false` for production builds.
- Updated `package.json` to add a new build script `build:local` for
  local database builds and adjusted the existing `build` script to
  include the `--remote` flag for production.
- Enhanced the README to clarify the build process and environment
  variable requirements for Netlify deployment.

// blank line
These changes aim to streamline the build process by providing clear
distinctions between local and remote database configurations, while
updating documentation to assist with deployment on Netlify.

README.md, after:

# Astro Starter Kit: Blog

```sh
npm create astro@latest -- --template blog
```

[![Open in StackBlitz](https://developer.stackblitz.com/img/open_in_stackblitz.svg)](https://stackblitz.com/github/withastro/astro/tree/latest/examples/blog)
[![Open with CodeSandbox](https://assets.codesandbox.io/github/button-edit-lime.svg)](https://codesandbox.io/p/sandbox/github/withastro/astro/tree/latest/examples/blog)
[![Open in GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/codespaces/badge.svg)](https://codespaces.new/withastro/astro?devcontainer_path=.devcontainer/blog/devcontainer.json)

> 🧑‍🚀 **Seasoned astronaut?** Delete this file. Have fun!

![blog](https://github.com/withastro/astro/assets/2244813/ff10799f-a816-4703-b967-c78997e8323d)

Features:

- ✅ Minimal styling (make it your own!)
- ✅ 100/100 Lighthouse performance
- ✅ SEO-friendly with canonical URLs and OpenGraph data
- ✅ Sitemap support
- ✅ RSS Feed support
- ✅ Markdown & MDX support

## 🚀 Project Structure

Inside of your Astro project, you'll see the following folders and files:

```text
├── public/
├── src/
│   ├── components/
│   ├── content/
│   ├── layouts/
│   └── pages/
├── astro.config.mjs
├── README.md
├── package.json
└── tsconfig.json
```

Astro looks for `.astro` or `.md` files in the `src/pages/` directory. Each page is exposed as a route based on its file name.

There's nothing special about `src/components/`, but that's where we like to put any Astro/React/Vue/Svelte/Preact components.

The `src/content/` directory contains "collections" of related Markdown and MDX documents. Use `getCollection()` to retrieve posts from `src/content/blog/`, and type-check your frontmatter using an optional schema. See [Astro's Content Collections docs](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/content-collections/) to learn more.

Any static assets, like images, can be placed in the `public/` directory.

## 🧞 Commands

All commands are run from the root of the project, from a terminal:

| Command                   | Action                                           |
| :------------------------ | :----------------------------------------------- |
| `npm install`             | Installs dependencies                            |
| `npm run dev`             | Starts local dev server at `localhost:4321`      |
| `npm run build`           | Build your production site to `./dist/` (with remote DB) |
| `npm run build:local`     | Build your production site to `./dist/` (local DB) |
| `npm run preview`         | Preview your build locally, before deploying     |
| `npm run astro ...`       | Run CLI commands like `astro add`, `astro check` |
| `npm run astro -- --help` | Get help using the Astro CLI                     |

## 🚀 Deployment to Netlify

This project is configured for deployment to Netlify with Astro DB integration. The build process uses the `--remote` flag to connect to a remote database during build time.

### Required Environment Variables

Set these environment variables in your Netlify dashboard:

- `ASTRO_DB_REMOTE_URL`: Your libSQL database URL
- `ASTRO_DB_APP_TOKEN`: Your libSQL authentication token

### Database Configuration

The project uses Astro DB with a `ClickCounter` table for tracking user interactions. The database is configured to work with both local development and remote production environments.

### Build Process

- **Local Development**: Uses local SQLite database
- **Production Build**: Uses remote libSQL database via `--remote` flag
- **Netlify Deploy**: Automatically configured via `netlify.toml`

## 👀 Want to learn more?

Check out [our documentation](https://docs.astro.build) or jump into our [Discord server](https://astro.build/chat).

## Credit

This theme is based off of the lovely [Bear Blog](https://github.com/HermanMartinus/bearblog/).
