src/writing/page-turners-2025-05-29.md, before:

---
title: "Page Turners - May 2025"
pubDate: 2025-05-29
date: 2025-05-29
description: "A list of links and demos I've collected over May 2025, with the intention of posting monthly"
tags:
  - page turners
  - writing
layout: post
templateEngineOverride: njk,md
shareimage: "may-2025-page-turners.jpg"
---

## Articles
* [Styling the icon for HTML date and time types](https://cassidoo.co/post/input-type-date/) - If you want a custom-styled icon for HTML date/time types, there's some options for you.
* [Use CSS reading-flow for logical sequential focus navigation | Blog | Chrome for Developers](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/reading-flow) - Learn how to use the new reading-flow and reading-order properties in Chrome 137.
* [The caption element](https://heydonworks.com/article/the-caption-element/) - An unofficial guide to the HTML caption element
* [You can style alt text like any other text](https://piccalil.li/blog/you-can-style-alt-text-like-any-other-text/) - A fun little side quest to show you how applying styles to alt text can really elevate your user interface.
* [The start](https://piccalil.li/projects/course-brand-development/1/) - The start of this open working project where we look at what's the come and what our starting point is.

## Demos
* [Pressure Sensitive Tip Button [Webflow x GSAP]](https://codepen.io/jh3y/pen/GgJRXbL) - ...

## Videos
* [CSS Popover + Anchor Positioning is Magical](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DNXEORSk4GU) - If you’ve ever needed the positioning of an element to be connected (or anchored) to the position of another element, then you’ll be very excited about anchor positioning

Commit message:

Add meta descriptions to writing posts
This commit adds `metaDesc` fields to the `@scope`, May, and June
2025 Page Turners posts to improve SEO and provide better context
for search engines.

- Added `metaDesc` to `@scope.md` for enhanced visibility.
- Included `metaDesc` in `page-turners-2025-05-29.md` and
  `page-turners-2025-06-30.md` for consistency across posts.
- Ensured descriptions align with the content of each post.

src/writing/page-turners-2025-05-29.md, after:

---
title: "Page Turners - May 2025"
pubDate: 2025-05-29
date: 2025-05-29
description: "A list of links and demos I've collected over May 2025, with the intention of posting monthly"
metaDesc: "A list of links and demos I've collected over May 2025, with the intention of posting monthly"
tags:
  - page turners
  - writing
layout: post
templateEngineOverride: njk,md
shareimage: "may-2025-page-turners.jpg"
---

## Articles
* [Styling the icon for HTML date and time types](https://cassidoo.co/post/input-type-date/) - If you want a custom-styled icon for HTML date/time types, there's some options for you.
* [Use CSS reading-flow for logical sequential focus navigation | Blog | Chrome for Developers](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/reading-flow) - Learn how to use the new reading-flow and reading-order properties in Chrome 137.
* [The caption element](https://heydonworks.com/article/the-caption-element/) - An unofficial guide to the HTML caption element
* [You can style alt text like any other text](https://piccalil.li/blog/you-can-style-alt-text-like-any-other-text/) - A fun little side quest to show you how applying styles to alt text can really elevate your user interface.
* [The start](https://piccalil.li/projects/course-brand-development/1/) - The start of this open working project where we look at what's the come and what our starting point is.

## Demos
* [Pressure Sensitive Tip Button [Webflow x GSAP]](https://codepen.io/jh3y/pen/GgJRXbL) - ...

## Videos
* [CSS Popover + Anchor Positioning is Magical](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DNXEORSk4GU) - If you’ve ever needed the positioning of an element to be connected (or anchored) to the position of another element, then you’ll be very excited about anchor positioning
