src/writing/page-turners-2025-06-30.md, before:

---
title: "Page Turners - June 2025"
pubDate: 2025-06-30
date: 2025-06-30
description: "A list of links and demos I've collected over June 2025, with the intention of posting monthly"
tags:
  - page turners
  - writing
layout: post
templateEngineOverride: njk,md
shareimage: "june-2025-page-turners.jpg"
---

## Articles
* [Stop Glossing Over the Good Stuff: How to Be More Positive](https://jason.energy/how-to-be-positive/) - We’re not born as “glass half full” or “glass half empty” people. We make that choice each day. Here’s how to stop negativity and start being more positive.
* [One rebel's malicious 'tar pit' trap is driving AI web-scrapers insane | PCWorld](https://www.pcworld.com/article/2592071/one-rebels-malicious-tar-pit-trap-is-driving-ai-scrapers-insane.html) - Nepenthes intentionally traps data-scraping bots in a never-ending loop of nonsense to waste computing power.
* [Figma Variables and Design Tokens – Part One: Variable Architecture](https://zeroheight.com/blog/figma-variables-and-design-tokens-part-one-variable-architecture/) - Part one of a multi-part series on Figma Variables and Design Tokens. Part one covers off architecture, modes and multi-brand setup.
* [A new way to style gaps in CSS | Blog | Chrome for Developers](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/gap-decorations) - Say goodbye to border and pseudo-element hacks.
* [Create this trendy blurry glass effect with CSS](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dsZ7RN9ItR4)
* [Scroll-Driven Letter Grid](https://frontendmasters.com/blog/scroll-driven-letter-grid/) - scroll-timelines go from 0 to 100. Many variable fonts axis have similar ranges, like 100 to 900. Surely that's begging for interplay.
* [Pride, shame, and accessibility](https://heydonworks.com/article/pride-shame-and-accessibility/) - The relationship between shame and motivation in web development, especially regarding accessibility.
* [The real threat isn’t AI—it’s the discourse surrounding it · Josh Nesbitt](https://joshnesbitt.dev/thoughts/the-real-threat-isnt-ai-its-the-discourse-surrounding-it) - It’s possible to believe AI is one of the most transformative tools of our time and that most of what’s being sold as AI is smoke and mirrors, or worse, complete bollocks. Both can be true.
* [The Who Cares Era | dansinker.com](https://dansinker.com/posts/2025-05-23-who-cares/?utm_source=the-index&utm_medium=newsletter) -
* [The Browser Company explains why it stopped developing Arc](https://www.theverge.com/news/674603/arc-browser-development-stopped-dia-browser-company) - Arc browser is now in a holding pattern.
* [Augmented engineering: learnings of an AI skeptic](https://www.jackfranklin.co.uk/blog/using-ai-responsibly/) -
* [Do Not Publish Your Designs on the Web with Figma Sites…](https://adrianroselli.com/2025/05/do-not-publish-your-designs-on-the-web-with-figma-sites.html?utm_source=stefanjudis&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=web-weekly-159-css-reading-order-js-generators) - …Unless you want to fail all the WCAGs, create litigation risk, close off opportunities in Europe, engage in reputational harm, and oh yeah, throw up barriers to your customers and users. What am I talking about? Figma announced Figma Sites, letting you publish your Figma designs directly to the web.…

## Demos
* [Scroll Indicator](https://codepen.io/OuterVale/pen/MYgoYzR) - This is a page scroll indicator inspired by the one on [LessWrong](https://lesswrong.com). Headers are noted and immediately jumpable, and it has two p...
* [Dynamic Toggle with [type=radio] + :has()](https://codepen.io/jh3y/pen/vEEZxOM) - ...
* [Nintendo Switch - Lesson Variant](https://codepen.io/argyleink/pen/ByNyvox) - ...
* [dropplets](https://codepen.io/raczo/pen/KKVbQmV) - SVG filters and CSS shadows...
* [the intention of :hover](https://codepen.io/jh3y/pen/wBaKoVa) - ...
* [Stateful labels with if() function](https://codepen.io/una/pen/vEOEzPa) - ...

Commit message:

Add meta descriptions to writing posts
This commit adds `metaDesc` fields to the `@scope`, May, and June
2025 Page Turners posts to improve SEO and provide better context
for search engines.

- Added `metaDesc` to `@scope.md` for enhanced visibility.
- Included `metaDesc` in `page-turners-2025-05-29.md` and
  `page-turners-2025-06-30.md` for consistency across posts.
- Ensured descriptions align with the content of each post.

src/writing/page-turners-2025-06-30.md, after:

---
title: "Page Turners - June 2025"
pubDate: 2025-06-30
date: 2025-06-30
description: "A list of links and demos I've collected over June 2025, with the intention of posting monthly"
metaDesc: "A list of links and demos I've collected over June 2025, with the intention of posting monthly"
tags:
  - page turners
  - writing
layout: post
templateEngineOverride: njk,md
shareimage: "june-2025-page-turners.jpg"
---

## Articles
* [Stop Glossing Over the Good Stuff: How to Be More Positive](https://jason.energy/how-to-be-positive/) - We’re not born as “glass half full” or “glass half empty” people. We make that choice each day. Here’s how to stop negativity and start being more positive.
* [One rebel's malicious 'tar pit' trap is driving AI web-scrapers insane | PCWorld](https://www.pcworld.com/article/2592071/one-rebels-malicious-tar-pit-trap-is-driving-ai-scrapers-insane.html) - Nepenthes intentionally traps data-scraping bots in a never-ending loop of nonsense to waste computing power.
* [Figma Variables and Design Tokens – Part One: Variable Architecture](https://zeroheight.com/blog/figma-variables-and-design-tokens-part-one-variable-architecture/) - Part one of a multi-part series on Figma Variables and Design Tokens. Part one covers off architecture, modes and multi-brand setup.
* [A new way to style gaps in CSS | Blog | Chrome for Developers](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/gap-decorations) - Say goodbye to border and pseudo-element hacks.
* [Create this trendy blurry glass effect with CSS](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dsZ7RN9ItR4)
* [Scroll-Driven Letter Grid](https://frontendmasters.com/blog/scroll-driven-letter-grid/) - scroll-timelines go from 0 to 100. Many variable fonts axis have similar ranges, like 100 to 900. Surely that's begging for interplay.
* [Pride, shame, and accessibility](https://heydonworks.com/article/pride-shame-and-accessibility/) - The relationship between shame and motivation in web development, especially regarding accessibility.
* [The real threat isn’t AI—it’s the discourse surrounding it · Josh Nesbitt](https://joshnesbitt.dev/thoughts/the-real-threat-isnt-ai-its-the-discourse-surrounding-it) - It’s possible to believe AI is one of the most transformative tools of our time and that most of what’s being sold as AI is smoke and mirrors, or worse, complete bollocks. Both can be true.
* [The Who Cares Era | dansinker.com](https://dansinker.com/posts/2025-05-23-who-cares/?utm_source=the-index&utm_medium=newsletter) -
* [The Browser Company explains why it stopped developing Arc](https://www.theverge.com/news/674603/arc-browser-development-stopped-dia-browser-company) - Arc browser is now in a holding pattern.
* [Augmented engineering: learnings of an AI skeptic](https://www.jackfranklin.co.uk/blog/using-ai-responsibly/) -
* [Do Not Publish Your Designs on the Web with Figma Sites…](https://adrianroselli.com/2025/05/do-not-publish-your-designs-on-the-web-with-figma-sites.html?utm_source=stefanjudis&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=web-weekly-159-css-reading-order-js-generators) - …Unless you want to fail all the WCAGs, create litigation risk, close off opportunities in Europe, engage in reputational harm, and oh yeah, throw up barriers to your customers and users. What am I talking about? Figma announced Figma Sites, letting you publish your Figma designs directly to the web.…

## Demos
* [Scroll Indicator](https://codepen.io/OuterVale/pen/MYgoYzR) - This is a page scroll indicator inspired by the one on [LessWrong](https://lesswrong.com). Headers are noted and immediately jumpable, and it has two p...
* [Dynamic Toggle with [type=radio] + :has()](https://codepen.io/jh3y/pen/vEEZxOM) - ...
* [Nintendo Switch - Lesson Variant](https://codepen.io/argyleink/pen/ByNyvox) - ...
* [dropplets](https://codepen.io/raczo/pen/KKVbQmV) - SVG filters and CSS shadows...
* [the intention of :hover](https://codepen.io/jh3y/pen/wBaKoVa) - ...
* [Stateful labels with if() function](https://codepen.io/una/pen/vEOEzPa) - ...
