src/writing/weeknotes-february-21-27.md, before:

---
title: 'Weeknotes: February 21 - 27, 2022'
description: Highlights from the week
date: 2022-02-27
tags:
  - weeknotes
  - personal
  - writing
layout: post
---

### Professional

1. According to my site analytics my latest post has a personal best number of views, which makes me very happy that it's being read.
1. Started planning my next post on React components.
1. Finished off an accessibility audit on my Rowe IT teams project.
1. My codepen for a info/error/warning component that I put together got picked by Codepen which was a great achievement for me. See it [here](https://codepen.io/dominickjay217/pen/BamOBRZ).

### Personal

1. As of Friday, I have walked approximately 25,989 steps.
1. I took a yoga class at the gym, and later on in the week did a mixture of bodyweight and free weight exercises.
1. Been playing 'Animals' by Muse on the guitar, not played the song in years and took some remembering, but definetely improved on it!

### Reading

1. The Daily Stoic
1. Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone
1. Lukas Oppermann - [Naming Design Tokens](https://uxdesign.cc/naming-design-tokens-9454818ed7cb)

### Music

1. Earl Sweatshirt - SICK!
1. Eminem - The Eminem Show
1. Eminem - Music to be Murdered By
1. Greg Puciato - Lowered
1. Jack White - Love is Selfish (Single)
1. Tyler, the Creator - Call Me If You Get Lost
1. Carpenter Brut - Fab Tool
1. Daft Punk - Random Access Memories
1. Daniel Avery - Love + Light
1. Frightened Rabbit - Pedestrian Verse
1. Kendrick Lamar - DAMN
1. Kendrick Lamar - i (Single)
1. Kendrick Lamar & Baby Keem - family ties (Single)
1. Pantera - Vulgar Display of Power

Commit message:

update weeknotes with music grid

src/writing/weeknotes-february-21-27.md, after:

---
title: 'Weeknotes: February 21 - 27, 2022'
description: Highlights from the week
date: 2022-02-27
tags:
  - weeknotes
  - personal
  - writing
musicDateFrom: '1645440633'
musicDateTo: '1645959033'
layout: weeknotes
templateEngineOverride: njk,md
---

### Professional

1. According to my site analytics my latest post has a personal best number of views, which makes me very happy that it's being read.
1. Started planning my next post on React components.
1. Finished off an accessibility audit on my Rowe IT teams project.
1. My codepen for a info/error/warning component that I put together got picked by Codepen which was a great achievement for me. See it [here](https://codepen.io/dominickjay217/pen/BamOBRZ).

### Personal

1. As of Friday, I have walked approximately 25,989 steps.
1. I took a yoga class at the gym, and later on in the week did a mixture of bodyweight and free weight exercises.
1. Been playing 'Animals' by Muse on the guitar, not played the song in years and took some remembering, but definetely improved on it!

### Reading

1. The Daily Stoic
1. Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone
1. Lukas Oppermann - [Naming Design Tokens](https://uxdesign.cc/naming-design-tokens-9454818ed7cb)

### Music

<div class="music-grid">
  {% set results = musicDateFrom | apiCall(musicDateTo) %}
  {% for album in results %}
    <a href="{{ album.url }}"><img height="174" width="174" src="{{ album.art }}" loading="lazy" /></a>
  {% endfor %}
</div>
