src/writing/weeknotes-april-12-18.md, before:

---
title: 'Weeknotes: April 12 – 18, 2021'
description: Highlights from the week
date: 2021-04-18
tags:
  - weeknotes
  - personal
  - writing
layout: post
---

### Professional

1. Watched a video on [Sketching, Illustration, and Logo Creation](https://www.learnwithjason.dev/sketching-illustration-logo-creation 'Sketching, Illustration, and Logo Creation by learnwithjason.dev')
2. Found [30 seconds of code - Short code snippets for all your development needs](https://www.30secondsofcode.org/ '30 seconds of code - Short code snippets for all your development needs')
3. Watched 'Flexbox Exercises' from Jen Kramer's "CSS Grids and Flexbox for Responsive Web Design" course on [Front End Masters](https://frontendmasters.com/courses/css-grids-flexbox/ 'Front End Masters')

### Personal

1. Watched episode 4 of Marvel's Falcon and the Winter Solider
2. Watched episode 4 of BBC's Line of Duty
3. This week I walked 75,458 steps
4. I did a mix of weightlifting, cardio and bodyweight exercises 3 times this week.

### Reading

1. The Handmaid's Tale - Margaret Atwood
2. [How To Create A Kickass GitHub Profile Page](https://app.daily.dev/posts/IAiuL1-1n) - Catalin Pit

### Music

1. Plastic Beach - Gorillaz (4/5)
2. The Midnight Organ Fight - Frightened Rabbit (4/5)
3. I Disagree - Poppy (4/5)
4. Demon Days - Gorillaz (4/5)
5. Ghosts V: Together - Nine Inch Nails (4/5)

Commit message:

update weeknotes with music grid

src/writing/weeknotes-april-12-18.md, after:

---
title: 'Weeknotes: April 12 – 18, 2021'
description: Highlights from the week
date: 2021-04-18
tags:
  - weeknotes
  - personal
  - writing
musicDateFrom: '1618182000'
musicDateTo: '1618700400'
layout: weeknotes
templateEngineOverride: njk,md
---

### Professional

1. Watched a video on [Sketching, Illustration, and Logo Creation](https://www.learnwithjason.dev/sketching-illustration-logo-creation 'Sketching, Illustration, and Logo Creation by learnwithjason.dev')
2. Found [30 seconds of code - Short code snippets for all your development needs](https://www.30secondsofcode.org/ '30 seconds of code - Short code snippets for all your development needs')
3. Watched 'Flexbox Exercises' from Jen Kramer's "CSS Grids and Flexbox for Responsive Web Design" course on [Front End Masters](https://frontendmasters.com/courses/css-grids-flexbox/ 'Front End Masters')

### Personal

1. Watched episode 4 of Marvel's Falcon and the Winter Solider
2. Watched episode 4 of BBC's Line of Duty
3. This week I walked 75,458 steps
4. I did a mix of weightlifting, cardio and bodyweight exercises 3 times this week.

### Reading

1. The Handmaid's Tale - Margaret Atwood
2. [How To Create A Kickass GitHub Profile Page](https://app.daily.dev/posts/IAiuL1-1n) - Catalin Pit

### Music

<div class="music-grid">
  {% set results = musicDateFrom | apiCall(musicDateTo) %}
  {% for album in results %}
    <a href="{{ album.url }}"><img height="174" width="174" src="{{ album.art }}" loading="lazy" /></a>
  {% endfor %}
</div>
